Good day.
My name is Irina Kiseleva.
Today I will take a video course
on the organization of optimal taxation.
I have extensive experience
in audit, tax consulting
and conducting tax accounting
seminars.
Using the taxation currently
existing in Russia, so
you can organize
your company's
taxation system most
efficiently and your
company can pay as much
tax as it can afford
at the moment.
Taxes and fees did not always
exist, and at first they
were temporary.
From temporary to permanent, they
have become from the period when
taxes were used to maintain armies
that were not dissolved in
peacetime and the introduction
of wars.
The permanent nature of the incomes
of the state budgets of various countries
they acquired in the early 17th century.
Menjamine Franklin
said that everyone
should pay taxes
and die.
As taxes became commonplace for
the population, the basis for
the idea of collecting taxes from the
population became
the non-productive nature
of public services.
Taxation currently accounts for the
majority of the budget revenues of different
countries.
So in Russia they make up 80% of
the budget, in the US 70%, What
are taxes used and collected today?
Sometimes they have a purely private
nature and a private purpose.
In Germany, for example, a tax
on acetic acid was introduced in the
early century.
For what?
It was introduced to stop the
use of wine in order to
produce vinegar acid.
At the same time, the costs of collecting
this tax were barely covered but
the goal was achieved and the tax
was of effective importance
for the country.
In the same Germany, the sharp increase in the excise
duty on tobacco has reduced the
number of smokers in the country.
In addition, taxes can be of great
importance for preserving the environment.
In the 1970s, a tax on motor vehicles was
introduced in the United States, taking
into account the environmental frequency of engines.
The tax system is an integral
part of any society.
In order to maintain the tax
system, various mechanisms are
used, in particular, in the
form of tax benefits or the introduction
of various effective
tax systems.
In general, they are the same in the states,
they differ only in the order
of collecting taxes and fees and naturally
in the types of taxes and
fees themselves.
The purpose of this video course
is to tell about the types
of taxes and fees that exist
in Russia at present.
If anyone is interested in
the tax system existing and
operating in foreign countries,
then you should contact
the tax organization in
the respective states.
The tasks of the organization of acquaintance
with foreign tax systems this
course does not put.
You can contact the open sources
of the International Monetary
Fund or reports of international
consulting companies for information
interested in this area.
We will now look at the types of
taxes and fees that exist in
Russia at the moment.
The system of taxation and types of
taxes and fees in Russia is
established by the Constitution
of the Russian Federation and the Tax
Code of Russia.
Federal, regional and local
taxes are currently established.
Federal taxes shall be established the
same for all enterprises, organizations,
individuals, existing, living
and conducting their activities
in the territory of the
Russian Federation.
Regional taxes are established
by the subjects of the Russian Federation,
respectively, and are obligatory
for application on the territory
of these subjects.
Local taxes are established by
local self-government bodies.
There are currently nine
types of federal taxes.
These are known taxes, such
as value added tax,
income tax, excise duties,
state duties, fees for the
use of animal world objects
and some other taxes.
Regional taxes include the tax
on the property of legal entities,
the property tax of the local
tax includes the land
tax and the property tax
of natural persons.
All of the above taxes have
the same economic nature.
As an economic category, any tax reflects
the relationship between the state,
the population and the legal
measures received by the population
or legal entities for the purpose
of governmental needs.
More specifically, the
tax can be considered as
a free, mandatory payment
required for
the needs of the state
budget or for non-budgetary
state funds, such as
the Pension Fund, the
Medical Social Fund.
The first and most important function
of taxation is fiscal.
The essence of this function is
that taxes should supplement the income
of the state treasury
and extra-budgetary state funds.
Regulatory function also has a great
importance supplementation and
regulation of certain types of
activities that are
carried out in our country.
Thus, individual types of taxes
by means of tax benefits allow
to develop activities, for
example, related to the creation
of jobs for disabled people.
Other taxes narrow activities,
such as those related to the
development of natural minerals.
The third function that performs
all taxes is the control function.
The state, by means of taxes,
controls the
financial and economic
activities of enterprises or
individuals.
In addition to taxes, there are also fees in the
country.
The fee is a mandatory payment
that is mandatory when performing
certain legal actions,
when issuing rights or when
issuing a license.
In addition to taxes and fees, the concept of
payments to the budget, such as fines and
fines, is in place in the country.
Pennies are the amounts you are obliged
to pay to the budget if you
miss the period of payment of
taxes and fees established by law.
The taxation practice, which is
applied in different countries,
has developed certain uniform
principles for all taxation systems.
One of the main principles
is the proportionality of expenses
in the form of taxes and income.
It is also called the
principle of justice,
when citizens and with
higher incomes
pay higher taxes.
For example, in Russia last
year was submitted
to the State B list of luxury
items subject to this
tax, including apartments
worth more than 15
million rubles, cars, aircraft,
boats worth more than
2 million rubles and
jewelry, as well as
art objects worth more
than 300 thousand
rubles.
The next principle of the organization
of the tax system is the principle
of conformity of the payment of
tax to the income received.
This means that the tax cannot be
paid on previously received income.
Another principle of the organization
of the taxation system is the clarity
of the formulations and principles
of the amount of the time period
for establishing the tax, which
must be set out in certain
formulations in the legislation,
which can be accessible to all citizens.
With all the uniformity of taxes for
all enterprises and organizations
operating in the territory of a country,
the result in the form of taxes
can be in two similar in
essence of the organization activities
completely different.
This is due either to the choice of
the tax system or to the quality of
the training of accountants.
If in the first case with the choice
of the system of taxation the result
affects the amount of tax, then in
the second case with insufficient
qualification of accounting workers,
the result can affect the
payment of fines and penalties.
Consider more in detail the
structure of taxes in the income
of certain budgets.
For comparison, we take the two leading countries,
Russia and the United States.
As can be seen from the table on the
slide, in our country the main
part of the income of the state
budget is the income tax.
In the United States, the majority
of income is tax on individuals'
income.
Thus, it can be asserted that
the main burden in the form of tax
exemption in the income of our budget
lies on enterprises, on
legal entities, and in the United
States on individuals.
If we compare the other
two tax revenues, they will
coincide in this case.
This is social insurance deductions.
In our country they are 19%, and in the United
States 34%.
But there is also a significant
difference, since we have social
insurance contributions made
by the donors who make payments
to individuals, and in the United
States these contributions
are equally paid to the
donors and employees.
In conclusion of the topic on consideration
of the types of taxes and
fees existing in our country,
I would like to note that in
addition to the above-mentioned
federal, regional and local taxes,
the country has established so-
called special tax regimes,
which provide for the payment
of their taxes and at the
same time abolish certain
federal, local or regional taxes.
This special tax regime
includes the following system
of taxation in the form of
a single agricultural tax,
which provides for the payment
of a single
agricultural tax by organizations,
enterprises producing
agricultural products.
The following system is a simplified
taxation system, which provides
for the payment of a single
tax or income tax minus expenses.
The system of single tax,
fixed income, provides for the payment
of a single tax on basic income
on certain types of activities.
The system of taxation of agreements
on the division of products.
In order to conduct a business effectively
in a country, you need to know
your rights and duties.
Consider the rights and obligations
of taxpayers, i.e. enterprises
and organizations, and individual
entrepreneurs, who are recognized
in accordance with the first
part of the tax code
as payers of certain taxes
and fees.
Taxpayers have the following rights.
First, we have the right to receive any
free information regarding the types
of taxes and fees existing in our country,
the procedure for their payment,
the procedure for their calculation.
We have the right to receive
forms of tax declarations that
are currently in force on certain
taxes.
To do this, you need to come to the
tax authority where you are attached
and where you have been issued
the so-called taxpayer identification number.
To issue this INN, it is necessary
to register with the
tax authorities before starting
economic activity.
In addition, you have the right
to receive written explanations from
tax authorities, which are presented
by the Ministry of Finance of
the Russian Federation, you have
the right to participate
in the examination of
the results of the tax inspection,
you have the right to complain
to the higher tax
authority.
Besides rights, there are also duties.
The main duty is to calculate the
payment of taxes and fees within the
time limits established by the legislation.
From the numerical tax and fees we
are obliged to present in writing to
the tax authorities.
For example, the VAT tax declaration
must be submitted no later than
the 20th of the month following
the reporting quarter.
The tax return must be submitted
no later than the 28th of
the following quarter of
the reporting period.
Tax authorities also have a
wide range of rights and duties.
What relates to them?
First, tax authorities are
required to provide us with
free information about the
types of taxes and fees
that exist at the moment.
You must consult, and for free.
For this purpose, a special program
for expanding tax points on tax
consulting has been developed.
Unfortunately, this program
suffered a bit of a fiasco.
It was developed in 2001, but
is now more advised
by commercial firms, tax
authorities.
The duties of tax authorities
also include mandatory
guidance in their actions, whether
in tax checks or in consultations.
The documents are guided by letters
and explanations made by the
Ministry of Finance of the Russian Federation.
The tax authorities are
guided by decisions of the courts
of arbitration, which were
made not in favor of the tax
authorities.
This is done in order to
reduce the time to resolve disputed
issues that will surely
benefit the taxpayer.
Tax authorities have the
right to take actions such
as demanding documents
from the taxpayer for checks,
and the list of documents
necessary for checks
is submitted in writing.
The right of tax authorities is to
check any enterprise that is directly
related to the calculation
or to conduct counter-checks,
for example, on the results of
the verification of your counterparty.
Also, the tax authorities are granted
broad rights in terms of
receiving advice from third-party
experts, specialists who have
certain issues on technology,
production, rendering of
services or performing works
more and better than the tax
authorities themselves.
In order to perform their functions,
tax authorities have developed
a single standard for the
service of taxpayers, which can
be read, and can be
read in open access in the information
systems existing
in our country.
To inform about the rights and
obligations of your own tax agents
or taxpayers in our country,
the state tax service has developed
and actively expands its format
website www.tax.ru There you can
get any information about your
enterprise and, most importantly,
about other enterprises with
which you are going to work, in
particular, about the location
of the legal entity, its founders,
about its correct identification
numbers and some other
information that is very
important, especially
with large and important
transactions for your
enterprise.
In addition, tax authorities conduct
seminars, which highlight questions
about the rules of calculation
of taxes and fees, about the rules of
drawing up tax declarations, about
the work of the tax authorities
themselves during the filing
of tax reports.
Not so long ago specifically for a resource
called “Check if you and your
business are not risking.”
On the website tax.ru is a list
of addresses with mass registration
of legal entities, as well as
a list of those heads of enterprises
that were disqualified
as a leader.
This can undoubtedly help
that have to work
with, especially in big
cities.
In addition, you can consult the
tax authorities naturally
and personally, not only virtually.
To do this, you can come
and register for the reception
at the tax authority,
where your 592 applications
from different enterprises and
individuals for clarifications
on certain issues have been
registered.
They are mainly addressed on issues
of correctness of taxation or the
choice of taxation system.
In our country there are
tax amnesty.
Last year from 31 December
2007.
What is it?
The tax amnesty provides for the amnesty
of the amounts of income
that were received by individuals
before 2006.
I would like to point out
that tax amnesty, wherever
it is, is for individuals
and not for legal entities.
If a legal entity has violated
the rules for calculating certain
taxes and fees, certain
measures are provided
for for this, but not tax amnesty.
The last tax amnesty was successfully
held last year, the nearest has
not yet been identified.
In order to conduct such effective
tax naturally, our tax service
requests advice from other
tax authorities of
foreign countries.
For example, the experience of
such amnesty in Kazakhstan
was used for tax amnesty,
where the majority of amnesty
amounts were received in
the last days of amnesty.
In order to amnestiate their
income, which for any reason was
not taxed at the time, it
was not necessary to submit to
the tax authorities documents
about the sources of income.
They had to pay 13% of the
amount received.
This would be considered as a tax
payment without any consequences.
International cooperation in the field
of taxation is actively developing.
The two countries have signed agreements
on avoidance of double taxation with
countries in Europe, America, Asia and
Australia.
The agreement on the exchange
of information on indirect
taxes is relevant
at this time.
At present, such agreements
only apply to direct taxes.
The conclusion of agreements and exchange
of information between countries
such as the Arab Emirates, Emanak
and Seychelles, which are countries
where there is preferential taxation,
which for certain reasons
is sought by many businessmen
and entrepreneurs, is also
of particular importance.
Therefore, it is important to
have general information about both the
founders and the payment on our territory
in Russia there are also special
economic zones where
preferential taxation is provided.
These include Kaliningrad,
Magadan region, and
Elabuga in Tatarstan.
There are registered and operate in
a special preferential tax regime legal
entities and entrepreneurs,
which carries out activities
there in order to develop the
socio-economic
zone, the development of
enterprises in these areas.
Therefore, many entrepreneurs,
of course, Russian, are seeking
to register and create
in these territories
to pay as little tax as
possible.
Such zones, offshore,
foreign or our special economic
zones, naturally, are subject
to special attention from
the tax authorities.
In other countries, tax
authorities treat offshore
zones and zones with special
taxation with caution.
For example, in Italy, if a company
has registered a subsidiary in the
territory of an offshore zone,
the tax is required in the same
system as the main company
pays under Italian laws.
If it is not possible to determine
the amount of taxes of a
subsidiary in an offshore zone,
the Italian company paying
the taxes and fees for its
subsidiary in full according
to Italian law.
Let us consider the procedure for
calculating taxes and fees,
which is in effect in Russia in more detail.
With all the diversity of taxes
and fees, there is a certain
general rule that applies
to all types of taxes and fees.
These are some elements that are
mandatory for the beginning
of certain taxes.
For example, a tax object,
which is established
literally for all taxes, the only
difference can be the nature
of the object itself.
For example, it can be the volume
of sales of goods, works, services,
income, property or other circumstance,
when the occurrence of which
is considered to be a tax.
Tax bases are a timestone physical
or other characteristic of the
object of taxation.
The tax bases for different
taxes can be very different.
In this case, some special conditions for
implementation of a particular implementation
are taken into account.
For example, the tax base
for the sale of services to so-
called interdependent persons
is calculated in a special way.
A small example.
If you have sold your products
to a mutually dependent entity,
i.e. a legal entity that
participates in your capital
within 20%, or a person who
is with you in a specified position
or relative, no matter
brother, sister, wife or
husband, then the tax
base can be converted
at market prices.
These rules of special calculation
of the tax base can be considered, with
them you can get acquainted in Article
40 of Part 1 of the Tax Code.
The next characteristic of taxes and
fees, the same for all taxes,
is the procedure for payment of
taxes and fees.
The payment procedure may be different
as the reporting period occurs,
for example, a quarter or a month,
after the expiry of the tax
rate on different taxes can be established
in both a solid amount
and a percentage of the
tax base.
For example, for the NTS,
for the value added tax,
the tax rate is set
in percentage.
It can be different and in size.
For example, when
selling export products
the rate is 0%, when selling
food or medical goods
the tax rate is
10%, when selling
other goods the
maximum is 18%.
The tax rate can be in
rubles or in percentage.
The income tax rate is
also in percentage.
The tax procedure and time limits
may also be different.
For example, the value added tax
must be paid no later than the
20th of the month following the
reporting quarter.
It will be no later than April 20,
July 20, October 20 and January 20.
The income tax shall be paid no
later than 28 of the day,
which was listed when considering
the payment of value added tax.
The single tax in the simplified
taxation system shall be
paid no later than the 25th of the
month following the reporting period.
Some enterprises or some
taxpayers may be provided with
tax benefits for payment
of certain taxes and fees.
They are provided in different variants.
For example, a certain minimum
of the accrued tax may not be
taxable, for example, the minimum
wage is not taxed.
Tax benefits may be granted
to non-taxable property transferred
by the founder of the organization
in favour of this organization
during the year, if
this property was not
sold to other persons.
Tax benefits are established by
some category of taxpayers,
for example, disabled persons.
The taxes and fees are calculated
independently and submitted
to the tax inspectorate
in the form of a tax declaration.
The tax declaration may be submitted
by the tax inspector personally by the
chief accountant or the head of the
enterprise, may be transmitted by mail
with an inventory of the investment
or transmitted on the Internet.
In any case, this is not specified
and at any time the order of
submission of the tax declaration
may be different.
In addition to taxes, there is a
duty of taxpayers to calculate
and pay advance payments
on certain taxes and fees within
the established time limits.
Advance payments are
equal to the same equivalent
taxes and fees.
Advance payments are provided for the
following taxes.
Profit tax, land tax, transport
tax, property tax.
The obligation is considered fulfilled
when the payment order with the amount
of tax is transferred to the bank in the
presence of the corresponding balance
of funds in the enterprise.
In addition, the duty to pay taxes
is considered to be fully fulfilled
when the company is liquidated.
Of course, all the budget
calculations must be completed.
Now we will consider in more
detail the procedure for calculating
some of the taxes and fees
most common in the Russian
Federation.
Let us start with the value added tax.
Value added tax is a tax calculated
from the value of the
products produced, performed
works or rendered services.
It was introduced in Russia in 1992
and is currently regulated by 21
chapters of the Tax Code.
Taxpayers of this tax are all enterprises,
legal entities of the Russian
Federation, as well as foreign
organizations of enterprises that
carry out activities in the territory
of the Russian Federation
or import goods into
the customs territory of
the Russian Federation.
Any enterprises may be exempt
from payment of this tax
when fulfilling certain
conditions provided
for by Chapter 21 of the
Tax Code and when providing
the relevant package of
documents.
The exemption can be obtained no later
than the 20th day, when the relevant
notification has been submitted to the
tax authorities.
At the same time, it should be borne in
mind that an enterprise which
has received an exemption, which is in
effect within 12 months after the
submission of the relevant application,
is not exempt from issuing invoices
for the goods produced
by the enterprise, services rendered
or works performed.
The VAT amount in the invoice is indicated
at zero rate, that is, it is
not available at all.
Enterprises must submit tax declarations
with scripts within the same
time limits as those established
for ordinary enterprises
who are VAT payers.
The subject of taxation on
value added tax are the following
types of implementation.
These are goods, works, services
that have been produced at your
enterprise or goods that have
been purchased for resale.
For example, you bought a product for 100
rubles, sold it for 120, the object of
taxation will be the difference.
The tax will be charged to the total
amount of goods sold, i.e.
120 rubles.
In the case of the transfer of
property, work, services, the subject
of taxation shall be considered the
market price of these works, services
or property.
A small example, for example,
you move from one to another and
left the furniture to the tenant
or future tenant of that room.
The residual value
of this property will be
the object of taxation
on value added.
Construction works for
own consumption
are also subject
to taxation.
For example, an organization performing
construction, installation, repair
work in the country has built
a pool for its own consumption,
that is, for use by
employees of the enterprise.
The cost of the pool will
also be subject to taxation.
If you have imported goods into the territory
of the Russian Federation
from abroad, the value of goods determined
by the Customs Code of the Russian
Federation will also be subject
to taxation.
The time limit for payment of value
added tax is the 20th of the month
following the reporting quarter.
Reporting period since 2008 for taxation.
The main rates are 0.10 and 18%.
The tax base is calculated as the difference
between the amount of goods
sold and the amount of services and
tax deductions or the year established
by Chapter 21 of the Tax Code.
The slide is an example of calculation of the
amount of the tax on the added Example of
calculation of the amount of VAT.
The company purchased materials for the
amount of 59 thousand rubles, including
the amount of VAT on the invoice
submitted to you from the supplier was 9
thousand rubles.
In the same period, our company
provided VAT-taxable services at
the rate of 18 percent for the
amount of 141,600 rubles, including
VAT, which must be indicated
in the invoice you issue, will
be 21600 rubles.
The amount of tax you have to
pay to the budget is calculated simply.
We must deduct from the VAT amount
charged in accordance with the
object of the sale of our services,
21 600 rubles.
The amount of VAT that the supplier
has presented to us when
purchasing materials sold or
used in the management activity.
The amount of tax for transfer
to the budget for this period,
that is, for the first quarter of
2008, will be 12 600 rubles.
Let us go to the common
social tax.
The unified social tax is
intended for the mobilization of
funds providing state pension
and medical insurance of citizens
of the Russian Federation.
The procedure for taxation of
this tax is considered in Chapter 24
of the Tax Code.
Who is the taxpayer of the
single social tax?
These include all enterprises,
eridic persons, individual
entrepreneurs, as well as lawyers
who are not employers,
who pay out collective
labour contracts to individuals.
In the calculation of the single
social tax progressive tax rates.
The higher the taxpayer's income,
the lower the rate of the
single social tax.
The maximum rate of the single
social tax for today is 12% of
the amounts of payments, and to the
pension fund 14%.
The subject of taxation of the
single social tax is the payments
of the employer in favor of
employees, calculated firstly on
labor contracts in accordance
with the Labor Code, and secondly
on civil law contracts.
When paying the single social tax,
a system of calculation and payment
of advance payments is provided.
Advance payments of the single
social tax are calculated monthly
until the 15th of the month following
the reporting period.
As a result, future advance
payments take into account
the amount of advance payments
paid before.
Consider a small example of calculation
of the ESS and the amount of deductions
to the Pension Fund of the Russian
Federation on payments made by the employer
in favor of the employee of the firm
in accordance with the employment contract.
In January 2008, the employee
was charged 50 thousand
rubles.
The employer must calculate the amount
of the single social tax and the amount
of deductions to the Pension Fund of the
Russian Federation accordingly,
at rates of 12% SN and 14% pension fund.
As a result, the employer's expenses
for January 2008 on the
charges made to this employee
will be 13 thousand rubles.
There are also tax benefits
for this tax, which can be read
in detail in Chapter 24 of
the Tax Code.
For example, benefits are
provided for payments to disabled
persons of groups 1, 2 and 3 within
100 thousand rubles for the reporting
period.
Now to the next tax.
Tax on Profit.
The income tax, also called
income tax, was introduced
in our country for a long time,
but the tax tax was introduced
only in 2002.
An entity can receive both
profit and loss during a reporting
or tax period, but income
tax is naturally paid only
on the received profit.
Who is the taxpayer of
this tax?
Taxpayers of income tax carrying
out their activities in the
territory of the Russian Federation
through a permanent representative
office or receiving income
from a Russian organization.
The income tax is calculated at a
rate of 24% from the general tax base.
Also, for certain types of income,
rates are provided in a smaller amount.
For example, a 9% tax rate is provided
in the form of dividends received
by a Russian organization.
The rate of 15% is provided for
taxes in the form of dividends
received by a foreign organization
from a Russian organization.
The income tax is calculated as the monetary
expression of the profit received
between the difference in income
and expenses made in the reporting
period.
If the company has received
a loss during the reporting period,
the tax base is recognized as zero.
A small example.
In the first quarter of 2008,
the company received a profit
of 300 thousand rubles.
In the first quarter, the company
will have to pay a profit tax at the
rate of 24%, which will be 72 thousand rubles.
In the second quarter, the organization
worked not very well and received
a loss of 500 thousand
rubles.
Thus, the growing outcome of this
semestre organization received a
loss of 200 thousand rubles, and
the tax base for the semestre
is recognised at zero rubles.
However, despite this, the company, according
to the results of the first quarter, still
has to calculate and transfer the budget
of the income tax in the amount of 72
thousand rubles.
To calculate the correct income tax,
an entity must choose and approve
in its accounting policy the
method of calculation, the method
of recognising income and expenses.
There are two types of methods
of recognition of income and expenses.
This is the method of calculation and the cash method.
In short, the method of charging
does not depend on the moment of receipt
of funds to your billing account
or the company's cash.
The cash method is directly related
to the actual availability
of funds, their actual receipt
from your buyers and the actual
payment of the costs that your
company has incurred.
Let us look at a small example of calculating
the tax base on the profit
of an enterprise using method counting.
The company purchased 100 units of goods
for the amount of 50 thousand rubles.
That is, the price of
the purchase of one unit of goods
is 500 rubles per stitch.
In the same period, it sold half
of the purchased goods.
The cost of labor was 10
thousand rubles.
The amount of the social
tax and the social fund was
2600 rubles.
The tax base for income
tax will be 50,000 rubles
minus expenses
of 37600 rubles.
The tax rate of 24% applies to the difference
between income and expenses.
This tax must be paid no later than
the 28th of the month following
the reporting period.
The reporting period for income
tax is a quarter, half-year,
nine months and a year.
Thus, if our company purchased
and sold goods in the first
quarter of 2008, the amount
of income tax calculated
in our example, it must
pay no later than April
28, 2008.
In other countries, there
are other income tax
rates.
In Bulgaria, the income tax
rate is 15%, in Australia
30%, in Austria 26%, in
Canada 36%.
As you can see, the rate of
income tax applied in our
country is quite average.
If you compare the situation
in relation to this tax
compared to other countries,
we are not in the most
advantageous position, as
in many European countries,
in Germany, tax benefits
are provided for legal entities
and entrepreneurs in the
first three years of
business development.
When there is no cash,
there is no customer.
Therefore, in the first three
years, German companies may not
pay income tax, but after the
expiry of these first three
years of business development,
in the presence of losses,
enterprises, taxpayers of this
tax are obliged to reimburse
the tax.
In Ukraine, income tax
is calculated by a different
method.
It is paid at 25% of the amount
of income received for the
previous tax period.
In 2008 the Ukrainian enterprise
paid 25% of the income
received in 2007 equally
each quarter.
If the enterprise was not conducted
in the previous year, for example,
in 2007, then the tax inspectorate
independently calculates
this tax, based on expected
income and expenses.
In Italy, when registering
an enterprise, it receives
a preliminary calculation of expected
taxes, from which it begins, actually
speaking, the activity, business and
interaction on the payment of taxes
of the Italian enterprise with the
tax authorities of this country.
In order to successfully conduct your business
in Russia, in addition to the types
of taxes and fees, you need to
know well and understand the tax systems.
There are three main tax
systems in Russia.
This is a general ordinary or generally
accepted taxation system in
a reduced version, it is
called the USN.
Simplified system of taxation and
the system of taxation of
the single tax on the income.
The abbreviated name of this system is
ENVD.
The general system of taxation
is provided for all types of
enterprises, large, medium or small,
who have expressed the desire
to apply this system.
But for large taxpayers, this
is the only option
of applying the tax system.
It is used by gas companies, oil
companies, insurers, bankers, builders.
The simplified tax system
is for small business entities.
It is widely used
by consulting and legal firms.
The ENOVD system does not provide restrictions,
except for the types of activities.
In other words, under the single tax
on the imposed income fall not
enterprises, but activities that are
introduced under the special regime
of taxation in certain subjects
of the Russian Federation.
Let us look at each system in more detail.
The general tax system
is for a wide range of taxpayers.
It provides for the payment of
all federal, local and
regional taxes, the main of which
are value added tax, income
tax, property tax and a single
social tax with the number
of the Pension Fund of the
Russian Federation.
No application of the test system
is required to submit any claims
to the tax authorities.
By default, an entity is
considered to be the payer
of all the basic taxes during
the period of activity.
The objects of taxation are selected
according to the options
provided for different types of
taxes in accordance with the tax code.
We will look at the example of the
calculation of taxes that
are subject to payment to taxpayers
on the usual tax system.
The company received revenues
of 236 thousand rubles,
including VAT of 36 thousand
rubles, calculated
at the VAT rate of
18%.
The net income will be
200 thousand rubles.
The costs incurred by the company
during this period amounted
to 180 thousand rubles, including
the single social tax of
24 thousand rubles.
Also the amount of VAT we received
in the invoices presented to
us for various services and works
performed for our company in the
amount of 32 thousand rubles.
Thus, the amount of all tax payments
that the company will be obliged to
pay for the first quarter of 2008 consists
of the income tax calculated as the
difference between income and expenses
of 20 thousand rubles, multiplied
by the rate of 24%, which
will be 4800 rubles, the amount
of VAT, which will be calculated
as the difference between the
amount charged from our sale of 36
thousand rubles, and the amount
received for compensation due
to the reimbursement for
the services provided to us.
The amount of VAT will be 4 thousand rubles
and the amount of the single social
tax, which is charged on payments
to our employees.
As a result, the amount of taxes,
calculated as the amount of VAT
and CN income tax, will be 32 800 rubles.
For all the above taxes, our company
will have to submit
to the tax authorities tax
declarations on income tax separately,
on VAT and on the single
social tax.
If the firm has property on the
balance sheet or land, in addition
to these taxes, it will be
required to transfer the land tax and
property tax taxes.
If our company had no revenue
from sales and had no income
during the first quarter,
then from the past for such
start-up businessmen, for such
start-up firms, a simplified
form of tax return was provided.
In other words, our company
would not submit three VAT and
CIS tax declarations, but only
one simplified declaration.
The next option of the organization
of the taxation system,
common in Russia is
the simplified taxation system.
Under this system, tax
organisations pay a single
tax on either the revenue
or all received total income,
and are exempt
from numerous taxes, such
as VAT, ESS, property tax
and profit tax.
How can the tax be calculated
using this system?
There are two ways to calculate taxes.
The object of taxation is
total income.
The second option of calculating
the tax object tax income minus
expenses.
The tax rate on income
tax is only
6%.
In the second option, the
tax rate is 15%.
We will look at an example of the
calculation of taxes of an enterprise
on a simplified taxation
system, which applies the
method of taxing income.
The simplified tax system is
applied exclusively
by small business entities.
The rules of taxation on this system
are established in Chapter 26.
2 of the Tax Code.
To apply the simplified
taxation system, companies must
file a application with the tax
authorities at the place of their
registration from 1 October
to 30 November of the year
in which you want to apply
the simplified taxation system.
In the statement, you must indicate your
income for the last 9 months of
the current year, as well as the
method of taxation for the two
options presented in this chapter.
Income method or income method
minus expenses.
Taxpayers on this system
are recognized organizations and
individual entrepreneurs, that
is, legal entities and individuals
recognized in accordance with
the tax code by
individual entrepreneurs.
In this system of taxation,
enterprises do not pay value
added tax, income tax,
property tax, and also
a single social tax.
The exception is those operations
where enterprises on the
simplified tax
system act as tax
agents.
What are these cases?
Payment of income to natural persons.
In this case, the company is obliged
to transfer from the income paid
to the budget the income
tax of persons and cases when
the company leases property
in state or municipal property.
In this case, the company
is obliged to transfer the value
added tax to the budget from
the rent paid.
At the same time, the company
on the simplified taxation
system pays the following
taxes.
This is the insurance on compulsory
pension insurance, the single tax itself
calculated on one or another option
of calculating the single
tax, as well as VAT paid
when importing goods into the customs
territory of the Russian Federation,
as well as some local
and regional taxes.
This is transport tax, water
tax, state duties when committing
some also land tax.
The elements of the simplified
taxation system are as follows.
The subject of taxation is 1 option
income, 2 - income minus expenses.
Expenses are accepted only
those that were actually paid by
the company in the current period.
The tax rate for the first option
is 6% of the income calculated
for the reporting period,
and for the second option 15%.
The reporting period of the
tax system is the first quarter,
the first half-year, 9 months
and the tax period - a year.
During the reporting period,
all enterprises on this tax system
are obliged to calculate advance
payments and transfer them
up to the 25th, that is,
once a quarter.
Consider more in detail the method
of calculating income on the simplified
system of income taxation.
In this case, the company during
the reporting period is obliged to
keep records of all income
received by the company in one
form or another, that is, in
kind and on the settlement account.
At the same time, the method applies
such tax deduction as deduction in the
form of a deduction to the Pension
Fund of the Russian Federation and
also all hospital fees paid in the current
period to employees of this enterprise,
they will also reduce the amount
of the single tax.
In other words, from the amount of the
single tax we can deduct these two types
of deductions.
Suppose that in the first
quarter of 2008, the company's revenues
from the sale of services amounted
to 200 thousand rubles.
The insurance expenses to the Pension Fund
of the Russian Federation, which were charged
under employment contracts with the employee,
the enterprise amounted to 4 thousand
rubles.
Our company chose the object of taxation,
which was specified in the application
submitted to the tax authorities,
chose the method of income.
The amount of the advance
calculated for the first quarter
will be 12 thousand rubles.
The amount of expenses to the pension fund
is less than 50% calculated from the amount
of the single tax for the reporting
period.
The amounts of deductions to the
pension fund shall reduce the
amount of the single tax not more
than half of the single tax calculated
and calculated for this reporting
period.
In our example, this amount
is less than 50% of the single
tax amount, so in the end, by April
25, our company must transfer
to the budget of only 8000 rubles.
If, after any period, an
entity has decided to switch
to a taxation system where
value added tax, income tax,
property tax is paid for any
reason, the entity must
file the application before
15 January of the next
enterprise wants to switch
to the usual taxation system.
Therefore, such a need
may arise.
For example, you work
with partners, with that
prefer to enter into
contracts with value added
tax payers.
As we already know, companies
that are on the simplified taxation
system are not in the broad
So we can move to the usual taxation
system by submitting
the appropriate
applications.
It is worth noting that not always
the transition to the usual
tax system with the simplified
is voluntary.
For example, if your average
number of employees of the enterprise
exceeds the accounting period,
100 people, or the value of your
assets exceeds 100 million rubles,
or your income, excluding VAT,
is more than 20 million rubles,
according to the tax legislation
this enterprise is
subject to the transition
to the usual system
of taxation out of wish.
The next option for calculating
the single tax of an enterprise
on the simplified taxation
system is income minus expenses.
In tax planning, it is very important to
observe the principle of choosing the
method of income or income minus expenses.
The fact is that it is not always profitable
to apply the income method if your
expenses are roughly equal to
income, that is, the profitability is minimal.
In this case, the company chooses the
method of income minus costs.
It should be noted that expenses
are recognized only after their
actual payment, for example,
through a billing account,
that is, in cash or cash.
In this case, the single tax is not
reduced to the contributions to
the Pension Fund of the Russian
Federation, but the new concept
of "minimal tax" is applied.
This is a 1% limit below which
you can not pay the budget the
amount of the single tax.
It is calculated for the
same reporting period quarterly
to compare the tax you could
pay if you reduced
your income on expenses
and the minimum tax
of 1% of your income.
Let us try to compare the effectiveness
of choosing the object of
taxation of an enterprise
in a simplified taxation system.
Suppose that our income amounted
to 5 million rubles in the current
period, for example, in the first
quarter of 2008.
Current expenses, which are related to
payments to individuals, with the
rental of premises, with transportation
expenses for the same period,
amounted to 2 million rubles.
Insurance contributions from payments
to the pension fund amounted to 200
thousand In this table, the option 1 is
presented with the method
of taxation income, in the second column
income minus expenses.
Pay attention to the third line.
In the first case, the amount
of the single tax will
be 300 thousand rubles, in
the second case 450 thousand rubles.
We have the right to reduce the amount
of the single tax in the first option
by the amount of deductions made to the
Pension Fund of the Russian Federation,
that is, by 150 thousand rubles.
As a result, the total amount of
the advance payment for this
reporting period will be only 150 thousand
rubles.
In the second case, we will have to
pay the budget of the pension funds
in addition to the amount of
the single tax.
As a result, as can be seen from
the table, the second option is less
profitable than the first, and this
is due to profitability.
As I said before, if the company's
expenses were close to 5 million,
that is, to the income received
by the company in this reporting
period, then the second option
would have more favorable
conditions for application.
Let us not forget that if our
expenses were as close as possible
to the income, then we must pay
a minimum tax in the case
of the second option.
And he would be 5 million, multiplied by
1%, 50 thousand rubles.
The simplified tax
system, without a doubt, has its
advantages and some disadvantages.
First, the tax burden may be reduced
in general because the enterprise
that is on a simplified taxation
system does not pay
property tax, does not pay a single
social tax, is charged for
payments, accounting is very
simplified with the income
method because there is no need
to keep a account of expenses,
document them.
The most important thing for us here is to
have in mind our receipts on the settlement
account and in the company's cash.
Tax reporting is also simplified.
We leave two tax declarations for simplification
and contributions to the pension fund of the
Russian Federation.
The tax rates are quite low.
The value added tax is 18%
on the goods and services
sold, the net income
tax is 24% and the rate
of simplification
is 6.15%.
The possibility of choosing the
object of taxation does not depend
on the legislator, tax authorities.
We have the right to take responsibility
for the choice of the object.
There are also some shortcomings,
shortcomings or disadvantages
in the use of this system.
So, if we apply the method of income
minus expenses, it should be remembered
that the expenses we must calculate
according to the list of
these expenses presented
in the chapter on the
simplified taxation system.
It has a lot of references to
another chapter on income tax.
Thus, the accountant who is engaged in the
calculation of the single tax according
to this system must at least two chapters
of the tax code, which significantly
complicates the calculation of the single
tax according to the results of the
reporting period.
In addition, not all costs can be
accepted in principle.
The list is closed and it is necessary
to lava and come up with some options
to simplify the options of costs.
The Russian Federation is a
system of single tax on fixed
income.
The rules for calculating the single
tax on this system are specified in
Chapter 26.3 of the Tax Code.
With this system of tax accounting,
we are also not
payers, as with the
simplified system of taxation
of some types of taxes, such
as income tax, value
added tax, property tax
and single social tax.
At the same time, the enterprises
pay insurance costs on compulsory
pension insurance, single
tax as such, value added
tax, transport tax
paid when imported
and some other local taxes
and fees, as well as on
the simplified taxation system.
Enterprises, if they are
tax agents, in particular,
if they pay, make payments
to their employees, then
they act as tax agents
of income taxes for individuals,
if they rent a room
from state or municipal
institutions, they
are also VAT
payers.
Taxpayers of this tax are organizations
of entrepreneurs who
carry out certain types
of activities specified in
the tax code, according
to which in some regions
this system has been
introduced legislatively.
Thus, the transition to the payment
of a single tax on the assigned income
is not optional.
It is mandatory for all and
entrepreneurs who carry
out certain types of activities.
Such activities include retail
trade through bins, tents, kiosks
that do not have their own shopping
areas, car freight transportation,
as well as passenger transportation,
by those enterprises in which
the number of cars
does not exceed
20 units.
Car service services, household
services are also subject
to a single tax on income,
but also some other more
rare activities,
you Tax Code.
The object of taxation of the single
tax system on the assigned income
is the assigned income,
determined for each type
of activity separately.
It should be noted that an enterprise
may be simultaneously a payer
of the single tax on the imposed
income if it, for example,
carries out cargo transportation
and the amount of motor
vehicles on the balance sheet
or rented by this enterprise
less than 20 units, less
than 20 vehicles, it may also
be a payer of basic taxes
if it carries out
other types of activities.
I will give a small example.
The company produces furniture,
has its own production, its
own building.
The number of units of motor vehicles
carried on its own vehicles
up to 20 for example 15 cars, so
the amounts received for the
sale of furniture must be reflected
by the general system of taxation,
that is, this enterprise
will pay VAT, will pay income
tax, a single social tax on payments
to employees of this furniture enterprise
and at the same time on the activities
related to the transportation
of finished products in
the form of furniture
to buyers, will be taxed by
the rates of the single
tax on the tax on the
taxable income, if this
tax is legally introduced
in this region.
The rate is currently 15%.
This rate is imposed on the income
that has been established for
this particular type of activity.
The tax base in any reporting
period does not depend on the
income actually received.
It depends on the physical
indicator for the specific
type of activity and the
basic return established by law.
The physical indicator
is set specifically for each
type of activity, for
example, for retail, it will
be the area on which
sales are made.
For retail trade, this area
must be at least 150 square
meters.
At this area, a single tax on
the income is calculated.
If the area exceeds 150 square
meters, then the general
tax system is applied.
The physical indicator for
the activity on freight transportation
will be the number of vehicles.
The physical indicator for
passenger transportation will
be the number of passenger seats.
Since 2008, such activities as land
lease for the organization of a trading
network, retail trade, for the
installation of tents, kiosks have
been transferred to a single tax
on the assigned income.
The reporting period of this tax
is the first quarter, the first
half-year, 9 months, and the tax
period is considered a year.
With this system, the payment of advance
payments, which are taken into account when calculating
the single tax on the end of the year,
is also introduced.
The payment period is the 25th of the
month following the reporting quarter.
Let us take a small example of calculating
the tax of an enterprise on a single
tax on the assigned income.
Our farm provides household services.
In the region where our company
operates, the basic Revenue on household
services is 7500 rubles
per month.
For the calculation of the single
tax we must take into account
the number of employees of this enterprise,
for example, in January 2008
the number of employees of our
enterprise was 3 people, in February
7, and in March already 8 people.
The tax base for the current
period, i.e. for the first quarter
of 2008, will be calculated
as follows.
Basic return of 7500 rubles, multiplied
by the number of employees of the enterprise
and the adjusting coefficients
of the basic return established
in this region, will show that in
the first quarter of 2008 the enterprise
will have to pay the effect
of the application of the ENOVD,
that is, the single tax on the
incurred income, is
quite obvious.
Because the amount of the single
tax does not depend on income
and expenses, it is possible
to significantly save on wages or
the number of accounting employees
involved in the process of registration
of financial business
operations of this enterprise.
Also easily filled in tax declaration,
which should only indicate the
amount of the single tax, which
in the same way as the method of application
of income in the application of
the simplified taxation system
we can reduce by the amount of
the budget deductions listed
in the pension fund for the
reporting period.
However, the disadvantages also need to
be taken into account, as the effect is
achieved with a fairly good revenue.
In other words, if you have
set your base return within a certain
limit, which is a constant value
throughout the tax period, and
your revenue does not reach the
expected results, for example,
your trading point is not in
a very convenient place, then
the effect of the application
may be reduced to zero.
How to do this, we will look at
in more detail in the following sections
of our program.
The effectiveness of running your
business and the duration of
your company's activities, as you
already realized, probably depends
on the correct choice of the tax system.
The system of taxation, as well as the
procedure for calculating certain
taxes and fees, is reflected in the
accounting policy of the enterprise,
which is approved literally on
each enterprise.
It does not matter what
tax system this organization operates.
Therefore, many employees of the
company, as well as external
users of the reporting policy,
must understand.
These include the head of an organization
that approves this accounting policy
in the form of an order, the
chief accountant who develops methods
and techniques for calculating the
tax base, the founder who forms
the structure of the direction,
the basis of the business, the
internal auditor who is responsible
for verifying the accounting policy
for compliance with the methods
and techniques, options established
by the legislation, the financial
director who is responsible
for optimizing cash flows and
reducing or redistributing
depending on the volumes
of tax payments.
The accounting policy should
be understood and the tax inspector,
who considers the accounting policy
when calculating the tax choices
presented by the enterprise
in the tax declaration.
Thus, when drawing up accounting
policies, employees of the
company are interested in successful
business development.
If you apply a general tax
system, the main element
of tax planning will
be the income tax.
It is here that there are many options,
techniques, recognition and accounting
of income expenses.
The main elements of the income
tax are income and expenses.
Income under the general system
of taxation includes, in particular,
income from the sale of the products
produced by the company, the
works performed or the services rendered,
the property received free of charge
or the works and services rendered to
you free of charge, income in the form
of penalties, which were charged
in violation of the terms
of the economic contracts of your
counterparty, interest in the
form of interest on the balance
of funds on your settlement account
or interest on the other enterprises
issued by you, in one form
or another.
Thus, it is possible to regulate, knowing
the options for receiving income and the
order of taxation of these incomes,
the enterprise can plan the receipt
of revenue and the outflow of money
in the form of taxes to the budget.
The second element of income
tax planning is expenses.
In this case, the tax code
presents a very wide range of options.
For example, if you rent a
room, then the costs in the
form of rent can be taken into account
in the tax base when calculating
one of the three options.
The first option is on the date of
submission of documents to you from
the tenant, the second option is on the
last day of the reporting period and the
third option is on the date of settlements
with the tenant.
If you know that you will not be
a regular payer of rent, it is desirable
to save tax payments when calculating
the method to choose the method
of recognition of income in
the form of rent on the date
of presentation to you documents.
The next important and
most common point of
tax planning is tax planning
with the application of the
simplified tax system.
As we have already considered
before, the main element and choice
of your business should be planning
your income and expenses, calculating
profitability, which affects the
choice of the object of taxation
under this system and which
you are not entitled to change
during the tax period.
In other words, if you have submitted
a statement to the tax inspectorate
before November 30 that you wish to
calculate income, for example,
by the method of income minus expenses,
you are entitled to change your choice
only within 20 days, that is, only
until December 20 of this year, preceding
the application of the simplified
taxation system, and during
the year of application of the
simplified system you are
not entitled to make any adjustments.
You, based on the choice of
the object of taxation in the
simplified taxation system, should
make your contracts, not
sales, but intermediary, to
organize the documents of turnover
accordingly.
If you chose the object
of taxation "Income", then for you,
the documents related to expenses
will not be as important as when
choosing another option, which
works with the simplified
taxation system.
Due to the fact that with the income method
on the simplified system
of taxation the amount of the single
tax you have the right to reduce the
accrual to the Pension Fund of
the Russian Federation on
the accrual payments to your
employees Tax planning in this case
is closely related to the tracking
of timeliness of payment of
deductions to the pension fund.